for these Palestinian climbers just
getting to this Valley in the occupied
West Bank to practice their sport is
itself a challenge Farris abuos says
growing numbers of Israeli checkpoints
with soldiers or Israeli settlers living
in the surrounding Hills are dangerous
obstacles that are tough to overcome we
have seen a lot of uh
repression uh revenge against
us you always feel uh you're being
targeted like the the fake sense of
security you used to have once now it's
completely gone because it's very easy
for you to be caught in the wrong time
and
Lace it's never been harder for
Palestinians to move around the occupied
West Bank W Al Gul is a popular
destination for climbers 5 km south of
Bethlehem on the way Israeli soldiers
stopped TK cner at a
checkpoint I was in the shared taxi and
I had some water in my bag at the
checkpoint a soldier poured the contents
of my bottle into my bag for no reason I
mean why did he do
that more than 400 Palestinians have
been killed by Israeli forces or
settlers in the occupied West Bank since
Israel launched its war on Gaza more
than 5 months ago but the climbers say
Israeli soldiers are less likely to
harass them if they're joined by friends
from abroad and one of them is Julia
Villa a climber from
Italy it's really beautiful here with
regards to the situation in Palestine
there are so many checkpoints everything
is closed as a Westerner I have more
rights than the people living here it's
different for the
Palestinians even under the severely
limited freedoms that come with living
under occupation these Palestinian
climbers say they're determined to
continue exploring their country and
asserting their identity Victoria gon B
Al
jazer make sure to subscribe subbe to
our channel to get the latest news from
Al
jazer